Announce Tenzir v4.17 (#4316)
tenzir/tenzir: web/blog/tenzir-v4.17/index.md

---
title: Tenzir v4.17
authors: [dominiklohmann]
date: 2024-06-21
tags: [release, azure-log-analytics, lookup-table]
comments: true
---

The new [Tenzir v4.17][github-release] brings an integration with Azure Log

> Analytics and introduces two mechanisms for expiring entries in lookup tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analytics and adds support for expiring entries in lookup tables.
```

operator][azure-log-analytics-operator], which sends events to [Log Analytics in
Azure Monitor][log-analytics-overview].

:::tip Want to Learn More?
We wrote an [integration guide][azure-log-analytics-integration] showing how to
send your events zu Azure Log Analytics using Tenzir. Come check it out!
:::

[azure-log-analytics-operator]: /next/operators/azure-log-analytics
[log-analytics-overview]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-overview
[azure-log-analytics-integration]: /next/integrations/azure-log-analytics

## Lookup Table Timeouts

The `context update` operator gained two new options when used together with
[lookup table contexts][lookup-table-docs]: `--create-timeout <duration>` and
`--update-timeout <duration>`.

Both new options cause individual events to expire in the lookup table. Create
timeouts specify the time after which entries in the lookup table expire, and
update timeouts specify the time after which entries in the lookup table expire
when they're not accessed.

```text {0} title="Expire lookup table entries after a week, or when not accessed in a day"
…

> | context update my-lookup-table --create-timeout 1w --update-timeout 1d

Reviewer: I think we need to be very clear that the minimum timeout is winning here. Saying "or" is not very clear.

Author: Do you think a "…, whichever expires first" helps?

  "flow": "1,0,54,0"
}
```

The `print` operator is especially useful when working with third-party APIs
that often do not support deeply nested data structures in their data model.

[print-operator-docs]: /next/operators/print
[parse-operator-docs]: /next/operators/parse

## Changes to Built-in Type Aliases

We removed the built-in `timestamp` and `port` type aliases for `time` and
`uint64`, respectively.

These types were relicts of Tenzir's past, when onboarding data required
specifying a schema explicitly. Back then, we started using type aliases to
further categorize parts of the onboarded data. With Tenzir today, automatic
schema inference is the modus operandi. This caused data that was imported with
a schema to sometimes use a `timestamp` type, but all automatically inferred
data used the underlying `time` type. This caused issues down the line, because
operators like `summarize` by design to not group fields together with distinct
types. To users, this showed as duplicate values that were supposed to be
grouped by in summarized results.

:::warning Required Configuration Changes
If you have custom schemas installed in `/opt/tenzir/etc/tenzir/schemas` or

> `~/.config/tenzir/schemas`, you will need to adaot them in one of two ways:

Author: ```suggestion
`~/.config/tenzir/schemas`, you will need to adapt them in one of two ways:
```
